# Visualization_OECD_Causes-of-Death
This project is created for analysis the different causes of death in past years in the OECD countries.
Health of a country is backbone of its growth, and there are many types of diseases growing rapidly in today’s world  and affecting many of the human being . People die due to unawareness of the disease, that may had been causing death on a large scale. Researches can only be carried out if they have questions to work on. In this project we will try to identify the types of diseases which have the large impact and their status, and the diseases which are emerging in last few years in the OECD countries. OECD is Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. It is a platform for countries to compare policy experiences, and finding out the current problems. In this project data from the OECD website had been used which had been described in the Dataset section. In this project we will try to find out some facts about the different causes of death in last 25 years. This visualization project contains of the three basic charts i.e. a map, a slacked time series and a bubble chart. The map shows the OECD countries worldwide and their population in 2015 is been represented by the size of bubble and figures will be visible while hovering on the certain bubble. This map is useful to identify a particular country which grabs the attention for the research and later this country can be selected in the select wizard just below the map. By default it shows the data for the Australia but after selection of the country it automatically reloads and shows a slacked graph describing the percentage of people died by various cause of death like diseases of the circulatory system. From here one can identify the main causes of the death that had been emerged in the last few years and these causes can be selected in the next selection box which contains all causes of deaths, choosing multiple will be an advantage for the comparison among different causes of death or single cause can be selected to analyse its impact on the other countries which can be done in the last graph which is a bubble chart here size of the bubble indicates the total number of deaths and its location describe the country from the x axis and the percentage it hold from the total deaths is symbolize by y axis. Further the year can be shifted from the slider followed by the selection pane which can help in analysis of causes within the timeline. Hence from a country population to the emerging causes of deaths can be analysed from this project. Moreover, these charts can also been used in reversed manner like first selecting a cause of death in the last chart and analysing in black box, it’s impact on the different countries, then selecting a particular country and comparing the cause with other causes in the particular country and later finding out the population in the country from the map. These graphs are interactive and able to provide all the information needed for an analysis. All graphs had been created in the ‘plotly’ which is discussed descriptively in the Process section. In the Result section, some the basic analysis had been shared.
